Big Data Analytics using Machine Learning in Cybersecurity

Project Summary
The goal of this project is to apply the concept of Big data such as Spark and Machine Learning classifiers models such as Decision Tree, Random Forest, K Nearest Neighbor and Deep Learning/Neural Network in detection/prediction of cyberattack.

Dataset
The NSL-KDD dataset (a refined version of the KDD'99' dataset) has been used in this project to generate train/test data for creating different ML models. The NSL-KDD dataset is generated by manually generated network based attacks. These attacks can be categories in four different types. The four categories of attacks
are:
• Denial of Service (DoS) – A malicious attempt to block system or network resources and services.
• Probe – This attack collects the information about potential vulnerabilities of the target system that can later be used to launch attacks on those systems.
• Remote to Local (R2L) – Unauthorized ability to dump data packets to remote system over network and gain access either as a user or root to do their unauthorized activity.
• User to Root (U2R) – In this, attackers access the system as a normal user and break the vulnerabilities to gain administrative privileges

Inspiration
CyberAttacks has been on the constant uprise for the last decade. Breach on Enterprises such as Target, Home Depot, Equifax and many more has left millions of customers, citizen compromised. Using of advanced technology such as Machine Learning models may provide more insights and maybe help predict before these kind of attacks/vulnerabilites could happen. This is our motivation behind this project.

Project Team

Jayachandran John,
Prabhakar Muriki

